# Introduction to SOC

Welcome to the first step of your career as a SOC Analyst. In this first section, we will talk about the structure of SOC and SOC tools. We will discuss why a SOC Analyst needs these SOC tools and how to use them effectively.

  
  
**What will you learn throughout the training?**

-   The structure of a SOC

-   The operation of a SOC

-   SOC Tools/Products

-   How a SOC Analyst should use his tools

-   Frequent mistakes that SOC Analysts make
  
  
  
Because we are going to revisit the above topics with a hands-on approach in the LetsDefend SOC environment, you will be able to improve your understanding and make progress quickly.

  
  
**If You Want To Become a SOC Analyst**

If becoming a SOC Analyst is your career goal, we advise that you especially focus on SOC tools (SIEM, Log management, EDR, etc.) and take notes.  
After you complete the training you may continue with more technically advanced trainings. But it is important that you begin here.

  
  
**If You Already Are a SOC Analyst**

If you work as a SOC Analyst and you are here to speed up your professional development, there are sections labeled “Quick Tips” just for you and also numerous examples of mistakes that are made. You can study these topics and focus on applying best practices in order to avoid making mistakes.

  
  

### Finally

In order to receive the most gain from this training it is important that you complete the training. The content is a whole and all topics are related to each other.  
It may be difficult to complete all the content in one day but if you divide this into daily/weekly periods you can successfully complete the program.

  
  
You can find an interview about "How to Become a SOC Analyst?"

[[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6cYtTzkgbMc|How to Become a SOC Analyst?]]
