# SOC Analyst and Their Responsibilities

In this section we will discuss what a SOC analyst is, his place in the SOC and what kind of work-related responsibilities he has in a general sense. It is important to read these sections carefully before learning about the technical side of things, this way candidates who desire to be SOC analysts can visualize what their future career would be like.

A SOC analyst is the first person to analyze any threats against a system. When the situation requires it, he escalates incidents to his seniors and thus makes catching threats possible. He plays an important role in the SOC because he is the first person to investigate.

  
  

### The Advantages of Being a SOC Analyst

There are many various techniques of attack vectors and malicious software and they increase more and more every day. As an analyst you will get greater enjoyment from investigating these varying types of incidents. Even though the operating systems, security products…etc. that you use will be the same the job will feel less monotonous because you will be analyzing different incidents. Also, you may not encounter such techniques (not every week or every day).

  
  

### General Routine

Throughout the day a SOC analyst will generally examine alerts on the SIEM and determine which ones are real threats. To reach a conclusion he will utilize various security products such as EDR, Log Management and SOAR. We will explain in detail why and how these products are used later in the training program.

To be a successful SOC analyst who is not dependent on security products and can correctly analyze SIEM alerts one needs to have the following competencies.

  
  
**Operating Systems**

To be able to detect what is abnormal in a system one must primarily know what is accepted as normal. For example, there are multiple services within the Windows operating system and it is hard to detect which of these are suspicious without knowing which are or could be normal Windows services. For this reason, you should know the basic logic of how Windows/Linux operating systems work.

  
  
**Network**

First and foremost, we will be handling many malicious IPs and URL addresses. And we will have to check if there are any devices on the network trying to connect to these addresses. If we can control this then it will set the tone of our analysis.

As a more complicated step we might have to detect a potential data leak on the network. To be able to carry out all these functions we need to know the basics of networking.

  
  
**Malware Analysis**

You will come across some kind of malicious software when dealing with most threats. In order to be able to understand what the actual purpose of these malwares are (they sometimes display different behaviors to mislead analysts) you need to have some skills in malware analysis.  
It is important to at least determine what the malicious file’s command and control center is and whether or not there is a device communicating with this address.

We have generally discussed what a SOC analyst is, what he/she does and what kind of skills he/she needs to have. As we continue with the program we will address technical areas, we will start with the SIEM.